# PROJECT-03
# Twitter Real-Time Data Analysis

# Project Description
* For This Big-data Project, we took Twitter API for Real-Time Data Processing from https://developer.twitter.com/en/docs/tutorials/stream-tweets-in-real-time. 
* Firstly we have to check that Zookeeper server is up and running ,and then check the Kafka server. 
* Using Apache Kafka first we Created a topic in Jupyter notebook and produce the topic to subscribers with the help of producer and consumers consumes that particular topic. 
* Then we created the DStreams to store the real time Twitter Data and process that Data using Dstreams operations.

# Technologies Used
* Kafka: The open-source software platform developed by LinkedIn to handle real-time data is called Kafka. It publishes and subscribes a stream of records and also is used for fault-tolerant storage

* Spark : Apache Spark is a lightning-fast cluster computing technology, designed for fast computation. It is based on Hadoop MapReduce and it extends the MapReduce model to efficiently use it for more types of computations, which includes interactive queries and stream processing. 

# Challenges Faced:
* Uninstalled the java version 17.4.2 as it was not supported by spark 3.2.1 version.
* We got dependencies error while connecting kafka with spark as “Please deploy the application as per the deployment section of "Structured Streaming + Kafka Integration Guide".
* Zookeeper and kafka server disconnected many times.
* We faced difficulties while Structuring the schema of streaming data.

# Conclusion:
* Spark Streaming library, part of Apache Spark eco-system, is used for data processing of real-time streaming data. In this project, we learned about how to use Spark Streaming API to process data generated by server logs and perform analytics on the real-time data streams. 
* Spark helps to simplify the challenging and computationally intensive task of processing high volumes of real-time or archived data, both structured and unstructured, seamlessly integrating relevant complex capabilities such as machine learning and graph algorithms.








